[docs] Add CI/CD tutorial (#44866)
expo/expo: docs/pages/tutorial/cicd/preview-builds.mdx

---
title: 'EAS Workflows for preview builds'
sidebar_title: Preview builds
description: Learn how to create preview build workflows for Slack notifications and PR previews using EAS Workflows.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { PreviewPipeline } from '~/ui/components/FlowDiagram/Diagrams/PreviewPipeline';
import { ProgressTracker } from '~/ui/components/ProgressTracker';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> Sharing in-progress mobile changes with teammates and PR reviewers often requires them to check out a branch and run a development server locally. By the end of this chapter, we have a preview build workflow with Slack notifications, and a second workflow that posts a testable OTA update on a pull request.

Reviewer: The "by the end of this chapter" reads a bit robotic in every one. Suggestion: maybe we can add it explicitly as a bullet list instead? So each chapter will be in this kind of format:

```
// intro paragraph

## Learning outcomes
- create a preview build on CI
- send a Slack notification with the build utl
- ...
```

So it'll be easier to see at a glance and will feel less robotic and more like a template for the chapter.

<Step label="1">

### Create a Slack webhook URL

To send messages from EAS Workflows to our Slack channel, we need a webhook URL from Slack's settings:

1. Go to [api.slack.com/apps](https://api.slack.com/apps) and create a new Slack app (or use an existing one).
2. Under **Features**, select **Incoming Webhooks** and toggle it on.
3. Click **Add New Webhook** and select the channel to publish notifications.
4. Copy the webhook URL. It looks like: `https://hooks.slack.com/services/TD000/B000/XXXXXXXXXX`

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Add a Slack notification job

Let's update **preview.yml** to add a `notify` job after the build jobs. The `notify` job uses `webhook_url` and `message` parameters, or a `payload` parameter for rich formatting with [Slack Block Kit](https://docs.slack.dev/block-kit). We have to add the webhook URL directly in the workflow file.

```yaml preview.yml
name: Preview builds

jobs:
  fingerprint:
    # ...
  get_android_build:
    # ...
  get_ios_build:
    # ...
  build_android:
    # ...
  build_ios:
    # ...
  # @info #
  notify:
    name: Notify on Slack
    after: [build_android, build_ios]
    type: slack
    params:

>       webhook_url: https://hooks.slack.com/services/TD000/B000/XXXXXXXXXX

Reviewer: This should be an env var I think - good way to show how these are passed in.

Author: See this: https://docs.expo.dev/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#parameters-9. It says only hard coded strings are accepted for this parameter.

---
title: 'Create preview builds for pull requests with EAS Workflows'
sidebar_title: Preview builds
description: Learn how to create preview build workflows for Slack notifications and PR previews using EAS Workflows.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { PreviewPipeline } from '~/ui/components/FlowDiagram/Diagrams/PreviewPipeline';
import { Prerequisites, Requirement } from '~/ui/components/Prerequisites';
import { ProgressTracker } from '~/ui/components/ProgressTracker';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> Sharing in-progress mobile changes with teammates and PR reviewers often requires them to check out a branch and run a development server locally.

Author: **[nit]** Spell out `PR` on first use on this page (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#word-usage`). `PR` is not in the approved-short-forms list and the page mixes it with `pull request` from line 20 onward; introduce it once and the rest of the page can use the short form.

```suggestion
Sharing in-progress mobile changes with teammates and pull request (PR) reviewers often requires them to check out a branch and run a development server locally.
```

> Sharing in-progress mobile changes with teammates and pull request (PR) reviewers often requires them to check out a branch and run a development server locally.

Reviewer 2: Suggest sharpening the opener and giving it a resolution - right now it states the friction and stops, just before the bullet list:

```suggestion
Sharing work-in-progress changes with teammates and pull request (PR) reviewers usually means asking them to check out the branch and run it locally. By the end of this chapter, they can test the change from a link instead: no branch to check out, no server to run.
```

Author: Keeping the current openers. Earlier review feedback on this PR replaced the per-chapter "By the end of this chapter..." sentences with the Learning outcomes lists that now sit directly below these openers, so re-adding the promise sentence would state the payoff twice in adjacent blocks. Also passing on the clipped fragment style ("no branch to check out, no server to run"), it does not match the tutorial's plain prose voice. Same reasoning applies to the equivalent suggestions on the e2e-tests and production openers.

## Learning outcomes

- Automate preview builds with fingerprinting for internal distribution
- Post Slack notifications when a build finishes

> - Publish an OTA update on every pull request and comment on the PR with a link to test it

Reviewer 2: First "OTA" on this page - linking it to the concept page helps readers who haven't met the term:

```suggestion
- Publish an [OTA update](/deploy/send-over-the-air-updates/) on every pull request and comment on the PR with a link to test it
```

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx expo install expo-updates'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn dlx expo install expo-updates'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm dlx expo install expo-updates'],
    bun: ['$ bunx expo install expo-updates'],
  }}
/>

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="EAS Update configured">

To configure EAS Update, run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:configure']} />

The above command adds the update URL and runtime version to **app.json**, and adds a [`channel`](/eas-update/deployment/) field to each build profile in **eas.json**.

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="Preview build created">

To receive PR preview updates, reviewers need a preview build with `expo-updates` and the EAS Update channel installed on their device. To create one:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --profile preview --platform all']} />

Since `expo-updates` is a native library, this build embeds both its native code and the channel from **eas.json**. Running the above command also allows EAS CLI to generate [credentials](/app-signing/app-credentials/) the first time we trigger a preview build.

</Requirement>

</Prerequisites>

## The `build` job type for preview builds

> Teams use preview builds for stakeholder testing. Members install the build on their devices or emulators/simulators through internal distribution, so they do not need to run a development server or check out a branch and download the code to test changes.

Author: **[suggestion]** Second sentence is ~35 words with three coordinated clauses (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). Consider splitting.

```suggestion
Teams use preview builds for stakeholder testing. Members install the build through internal distribution onto their device/emulator/simulator. They do not have to run a development server or check out the branch to test changes.
```

<PreviewPipeline />

> Like development builds, we add fingerprints to avoid unnecessary rebuilds when native code doesn't change.

Reviewer 2: This references the previous chapter - a link helps readers who landed here directly:

```suggestion
Like [development builds](/tutorial/cicd/development-builds/), we add fingerprints to avoid unnecessary rebuilds when native code doesn't change.
```

<Step label="1">

### Add a preview.yml

Inside **.eas/workflows/**, let's add a new file called **preview.yml**. This workflow file uses the `preview` profile.

```yml .eas/workflows/preview.yml
name: Preview builds

jobs:
  fingerprint:
    name: Fingerprint
    type: fingerprint
    # @info #
    environment: preview

>     # @end #

Reviewer 2: Possible rendering bug on this page: when I view the preview deployment, **none of the `@info` highlight annotations render anywhere in this chapter** - including well-formed blocks like this one (the same `# @info #` / `# @end #` syntax renders fine in development-builds).

The only source-level issue I could find is the Slack-job block further down, where the markers are missing their closing `#` (flagged separately with a suggestion) - but that doesn't explain the well-formed blocks failing too. The highlight transform in `docs/common/code-utilities.ts` matches these markers, so the syntax here looks correct.

Could you check whether the highlights render for you? If they don't, this might be worth a look before merge since the chapter leans on them to show what changed in each YAML iteration.

Author: Root-caused, and you were right that it was not just the malformed pair. The main preview.yml block used a ```yml fence, and the annotation transform in code-utilities.ts only runs for the languages ['properties', 'ruby', 'bash', 'yaml'], so every annotation in that block silently no-opped. It was the only yml fence in all of the docs. Fixed the fence to yaml, fixed the malformed pair you flagged separately, and added yml to the transform's allowlist so this cannot silently recur. All six annotations on the page render now.

  get_android_build:
    name: Check for existing Android build
    needs: [fingerprint]
    type: get-build
    params:
      fingerprint_hash: ${{ needs.fingerprint.outputs.android_fingerprint_hash }}
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
  get_ios_build:
    name: Check for existing iOS build
    needs: [fingerprint]
    type: get-build
    params:
      fingerprint_hash: ${{ needs.fingerprint.outputs.ios_fingerprint_hash }}
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
  build_android:
    name: Build Android
    needs: [get_android_build]
    if: ${{ !needs.get_android_build.outputs.build_id }}
    type: build
    params:
      platform: android
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
  build_ios:
    name: Build iOS
    needs: [get_ios_build]
    if: ${{ !needs.get_ios_build.outputs.build_id }}
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Run the workflow

Run the workflow manually using the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/preview.yml']} />

> In the EAS dashboard, notice that the workflow follows the same fingerprint pattern we implemented for development builds. Since we are creating the preview build for the first time, it runs the build jobs for Android and iOS. If we push another commit to the `main` branch without changing native code, the workflow skips the build jobs since compatible builds already exist.

Reviewer 2: Same here - linking the chapter where the fingerprint pattern was built:

```suggestion
In the EAS dashboard, notice that the workflow follows the same fingerprint pattern we implemented for [development builds](/tutorial/cicd/development-builds/). Since we are creating the preview build for the first time, it runs the build jobs for Android and iOS. If we push another commit to the `main` branch without changing native code, the workflow skips the build jobs since compatible builds already exist.
```

<Step label="1">

### Create a Slack webhook URL

To send messages from EAS Workflows to our Slack channel, we need a webhook URL from Slack's settings:

1. Go to [api.slack.com/apps](https://api.slack.com/apps) and create a new Slack app (or use an existing one).
2. Under **Features**, select **Incoming Webhooks** and toggle it on.
3. Click **Add New Webhook** and select the channel to publish notifications.
4. Copy the webhook URL. It looks like: `https://hooks.slack.com/services/TD000/B000/XXXXXXXXXX`

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Add a Slack notification job

Let's update **preview.yml** to add a `notify` job after the build jobs. The `notify` job uses `webhook_url` and `message` parameters, or a `payload` parameter for rich formatting with [Slack Block Kit](https://docs.slack.dev/block-kit). We have to add the webhook URL directly in the workflow file.

```yaml .eas/workflows/preview.yml
name: Preview builds

jobs:
  fingerprint: # ...
  get_android_build: # ...
  get_ios_build: # ...
  build_android: # ...
  build_ios: # ...

>   # @info
>   notify:
>     name: Notify on Slack
>     after: [build_android, build_ios]
>     type: slack
>     params:
>       webhook_url: https://hooks.slack.com/services/TD000/B000/XXXXXXXXXX
>       message: 'Preview builds are ready - Android: ${{ after.build_android.status }}, iOS: ${{ after.build_ios.status }}'
>   # @end

Reviewer 2: These two highlight markers are missing their closing `#` (`# @info` / `# @end` instead of `# @info #` / `# @end #`), so the block doesn't highlight - and because `cleanCopyValue` also keys on the closing `#`, the markers leak into the code readers copy:

```suggestion
  # @info #
  notify:
    name: Notify on Slack
    after: [build_android, build_ios]
    type: slack
    params:
      webhook_url: https://hooks.slack.com/services/TD000/B000/XXXXXXXXXX
      message: 'Preview builds are ready - Android: ${{ after.build_android.status }}, iOS: ${{ after.build_ios.status }}'
  # @end #
```

Author: Fixed, both markers close with # now. Good catch on the copy leak through cleanCopyValue as well.

```

> The `after` field ensures the notification fires once the builds finish, regardless of the outcome. The `message` uses `${{ after.build_android.status }}` and `${{ after.build_ios.status }}` to include the outcome (success, failure, or skipped) for each platform, so the team sees what happened without leaving Slack.

Author: **[suggestion]** Second sentence is ~32 words with two chained expressions (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). Consider splitting at the `so the team sees` boundary.

```suggestion
The `after` field ensures the notification fires once the builds finish, regardless of the outcome. The `message` uses `${{ after.build_android.status }}` and `${{ after.build_ios.status }}` to include each platform's outcome (success, failure, or skipped). The team sees what happened without leaving Slack.
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Run the workflow

Run the workflow manually using the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/preview.yml']} />

On the EAS dashboard, we can verify that the `Notify on Slack` job runs successfully.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="EAS Workflows preview run showing the Notify on Slack job completing successfully after the Android and iOS build jobs."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-preview-slack-notify-job.png"
  className="max-w-160"
/>

We can also verify this in the Slack channel integrated with the app.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A Slack message posted by EAS Workflows showing the completion status of Android and iOS preview builds for an Expo project."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-preview-slack-notification.png"
  className="max-w-90"
/>

</Step>

## PR previews using EAS Update

> A PR reviewer can read the diff, but cannot see the changes visually or test them on a device. To do that, they need to check out the branch and start a development server locally.

Reviewer 2: The second sentence repeats the chapter opener (check out the branch + run a dev server). The next paragraph's "without checking out the branch" already carries the contrast, so this can go:

```suggestion
A PR reviewer can read the diff, but cannot see the changes visually or test them on a device.
```

> Web teams solve this with deploy previews. When someone opens a pull request, a CI/CD workflow generates a preview link. Reviewers click and test the changes without checking out the branch.
> 
> For mobile, we can set up the equivalent using [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/). EAS Update delivers a JavaScript bundle to devices that already have a compatible build installed, skipping the native compilation step. For PR previews, an update is the right fit because reviewers can install and test quickly, then leave feedback on the PR.

Reviewer 2: Three small things across these two paragraphs: "click" has no object, "EAS Update. EAS Update" repeats the name back-to-back, and reviewers *open* the update rather than install it (their device already has a compatible build; the github-comment job gives a link/QR to open):

```suggestion
Web teams solve this with deploy previews. When someone opens a pull request, a CI/CD workflow generates a preview link. Reviewers open the link and test the changes without checking out the branch.

For mobile, we can set up the equivalent using [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/). It delivers a JavaScript bundle to devices that already have a compatible build installed, skipping the native compilation step. For PR previews, an update is the right fit because reviewers can open and test quickly, then leave feedback on the PR.
```

EAS Workflows provides a [`github-comment`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#github-comment) pre-packaged job for this. It posts a comment on the pull request after the update publishes, giving reviewers a link or QR code to open the update on their device.

<Step label="1">

### Create a pr-preview.yml

Inside **.eas/workflows/**, let's add a new file called **pr-preview.yml**. This workflow runs when a pull request is created using the `on.pull_request` trigger. It only publishes an update using the `update` job type and then posts a comment on the PR with the link to the update.

```yaml .eas/workflows/pr-preview.yml
name: PR Preview

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  publish_preview:
    name: Publish PR preview update
    type: update
    environment: preview
    params:
      channel: preview
    comment:
      needs: [publish_preview]

>       type: github-comment

Author: **[critical]** The `comment:` block is indented four spaces, which makes it a property of `publish_preview` rather than a sibling job under `jobs:` (`expo-docs-components.md#code-blocks`). As written, this example will not run the github-comment step the tutorial promises in the prose above. Reindent so `comment:` aligns with `publish_preview:` at the `jobs:` level.

```suggestion
  comment:
    needs: [publish_preview]
    type: github-comment
```

```

> > **important** Before testing the above workflow, we need to ensure that **pr-preview.yml** file is committed and pushed to the `main` branch of our GitHub repository. **EAS Workflows reads workflow files from the default branch.**

Author: **[suggestion]** Passive voice (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
> **important** Before testing the above workflow, commit **pr-preview.yml** and push it to the `main` branch of our GitHub repository. **EAS Workflows reads workflow files from the default branch.**
```

  cmdCopy="git add . && git commit -m 'Test PR preview' && git push origin test-preview"
/>

Open a pull request from `test-preview` to `main` on GitHub. The workflow runs automatically after we have created a pull request. On the EAS dashboard, we can verify that the `publish_preview` job runs first and the `comment` job runs after it succeeds.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="EAS Workflows pull-request preview run showing the publish_preview job followed by the comment job that posts the update link to GitHub."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-preview-pr-publish-comment.png"
  className="max-w-160"
/>

On the GitHub pull request, a comment should appear with a link or QR code to test the update on a device.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A GitHub pull request comment posted by EAS Workflows linking to an EAS Update preview for the proposed changes."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-preview-github-pr-comment.png"
  className="max-w-160"
/>

Using the link or QR code in the comment, we can now open the update on our device or emulator/simulator and test the changes.

</Step>

## Summary

<ProgressTracker
  currentChapterIndex={2}
  name="CICD_TUTORIAL"

>   summary="We created a preview build workflow with fingerprinting, added Slack notifications to alert the team on build completion, and set up PR previews using EAS Update so reviewers can test changes without checking out a branch."

Author: **[suggestion]** The ProgressTracker `summary` is a 36-word sentence with three parallel verbs and a trailing subordinate clause (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). The parallel structure carries it, but trimming the third clause keeps it closer to the other chapter summaries on this PR (25-33 words).

```suggestion
  summary="We created a preview build workflow with fingerprinting, added Slack notifications for build status, and set up PR previews using EAS Update so reviewers can test changes without checking out a branch."
```

>   nextChapterDescription="In the next chapter, learn how to run end-to-end tests with Maestro in an EAS Workflow."

Author: **[nit]** Per the glossary, `EAS Workflows` is always plural (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#glossary-and-product-names`). The product name in `nextChapterDescription` is singular.

```suggestion
  nextChapterDescription="In the next chapter, learn how to run end-to-end tests with Maestro in an EAS Workflows job."
```

## Learning outcomes

- Automate preview builds with fingerprinting for internal distribution
- Post Slack notifications when a build finishes
- Publish an OTA update on every pull request and comment on the PR with a link to test it

<Prerequisites>

<Requirement title="expo-updates installed">

Install the [`expo-updates`](/versions/latest/sdk/updates/) library:

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx expo install expo-updates'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn dlx expo install expo-updates'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm dlx expo install expo-updates'],
    bun: ['$ bunx expo install expo-updates'],
  }}
/>

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="EAS Update configured">

To configure EAS Update, run:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:configure']} />

The above command adds the update URL and runtime version to **app.json**, and adds a [`channel`](/eas-update/deployment/) field to each build profile in **eas.json**.

</Requirement>

<Requirement title="Preview build created">

To receive PR preview updates, reviewers need a preview build with `expo-updates` and the EAS Update channel installed on their device. To create one:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --profile preview --platform all']} />

> Since `expo-updates` is a native library, this build embeds both its native code and the channel from **eas.json**. Running the above command will also allow EAS CLI to generate [credentials](/app-signing/app-credentials/) the first time we trigger a preview build.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Since `expo-updates` is a native library, this build embeds both its native code and the channel from **eas.json**. Running the above command also allows EAS CLI to generate [credentials](/app-signing/app-credentials/) the first time we trigger a preview build.
```

</Requirement>

</Prerequisites>

## The `build` job type for preview builds

Teams use preview builds for stakeholder testing. Members install the build on their devices or emulators/simulators through internal distribution, so they do not need to run a development server or check out a branch and download the code to test changes.

<PreviewPipeline />

> Like development builds, we will add fingerprints to avoid unnecessary rebuilds when native code doesn't change.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Like development builds, we add fingerprints to avoid unnecessary rebuilds when native code doesn't change.
```

<Step label="1">

### Add a preview.yml

> Inside **.eas/workflows/**, let's add a new file called **preview.yml**. This workflow file will use the `preview` profile.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Inside **.eas/workflows/**, let's add a new file called **preview.yml**. This workflow file uses the `preview` profile.
```

> ```yaml preview.yml

Author: **[nit]** The style guide says fenced blocks for a specific file get the path after the language tag (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#formatting-and-structure`). Every other YAML block in this tutorial uses the full `.eas/workflows/<name>.yml` path.

```suggestion
```yaml .eas/workflows/preview.yml
```

    # @info #
    environment: preview
    # @end #
  get_android_build:
    name: Check for existing Android build
    needs: [fingerprint]
    type: get-build
    params:
      fingerprint_hash: ${{ needs.fingerprint.outputs.android_fingerprint_hash }}
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
  get_ios_build:
    name: Check for existing iOS build
    needs: [fingerprint]
    type: get-build
    params:
      fingerprint_hash: ${{ needs.fingerprint.outputs.ios_fingerprint_hash }}
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
  build_android:
    name: Build Android
    needs: [get_android_build]
    if: ${{ !needs.get_android_build.outputs.build_id }}
    type: build
    params:
      platform: android
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
  build_ios:
    name: Build iOS
    needs: [get_ios_build]
    if: ${{ !needs.get_ios_build.outputs.build_id }}
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      # @info #
      profile: preview
      # @end #
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Run the workflow

Run the workflow manually using the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/preview.yml']} />

> In the EAS dashboard, notice that the workflow follows the same fingerprint pattern we implemented for development builds. Since we are creating the preview build for the first time, it runs the build jobs for Android and iOS. If we push another commit to the `main` branch without changing native code, the workflow will skip the build jobs since compatible builds already exist.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
In the EAS dashboard, notice that the workflow follows the same fingerprint pattern we implemented for development builds. Since we are creating the preview build for the first time, it runs the build jobs for Android and iOS. If we push another commit to the `main` branch without changing native code, the workflow skips the build jobs since compatible builds already exist.
```

Many teams use Slack for build notifications so their team sees build status without checking the EAS dashboard. When a build completes (or skips), the [`slack`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#slack) pre-packaged job posts the status to a channel.

<Step label="1">

### Create a Slack webhook URL

To send messages from EAS Workflows to our Slack channel, we need a webhook URL from Slack's settings:

1. Go to [api.slack.com/apps](https://api.slack.com/apps) and create a new Slack app (or use an existing one).
2. Under **Features**, select **Incoming Webhooks** and toggle it on.
3. Click **Add New Webhook** and select the channel to publish notifications.
4. Copy the webhook URL. It looks like: `https://hooks.slack.com/services/TD000/B000/XXXXXXXXXX`

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Add a Slack notification job

Let's update **preview.yml** to add a `notify` job after the build jobs. The `notify` job uses `webhook_url` and `message` parameters, or a `payload` parameter for rich formatting with [Slack Block Kit](https://docs.slack.dev/block-kit). We have to add the webhook URL directly in the workflow file.

> ```yaml preview.yml

Author: **[nit]** Same as line 75: use the full `.eas/workflows/preview.yml` path as the code-block title (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#formatting-and-structure`).

```suggestion
```yaml .eas/workflows/preview.yml
```

Web teams solve this with deploy previews. When someone opens a pull request, a CI/CD workflow generates a preview link. Reviewers click and test the changes without checking out the branch.

For mobile, we can set up the equivalent using [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/). EAS Update delivers a JavaScript bundle to devices that already have a compatible build installed, skipping the native compilation step. For PR previews, an update is the right fit because reviewers can install and test quickly, then leave feedback on the PR.

EAS Workflows provides a [`github-comment`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#github-comment) pre-packaged job for this. It posts a comment on the pull request after the update publishes, giving reviewers a link or QR code to open the update on their device.

<Step label="1">

### Create a pr-preview.yml

Inside **.eas/workflows/**, let's add a new file called **pr-preview.yml**. This workflow runs when a pull request is created using the `on.pull_request` trigger. It only publishes an update using the `update` job type and then posts a comment on the PR with the link to the update.

> ```yaml pr-preview.yml

Author: **[nit]** Use the full path as the code-block title (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#formatting-and-structure`), matching the rest of the tutorial.

```suggestion
```yaml .eas/workflows/pr-preview.yml
```

name: PR Preview

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  publish_preview:
    name: Publish PR preview update
    type: update
    environment: preview
    params:
      channel: preview
  comment:
    needs: [publish_preview]
    type: github-comment
```

> **important** Before testing the above workflow, we need to ensure that **pr-preview.yml** file is committed and pushed to the `main` branch of our GitHub repository. **EAS Workflows reads workflow files from the default branch.**

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Test with a pull request

Let's test the workflow by creating a pull request in our GitHub repository. A pull request requires a separate branch from `main`. Run the following command to create and switch to a new branch:

<Terminal cmd={['$ git checkout -b test-preview']} />

Now, let's make a visible change in the Expo project (for example, change a text string or background color). Then, commit and push the branch:

<Terminal
  cmd={['$ git add .', '$ git commit -m "Test PR preview"', '$ git push origin test-preview']}
  cmdCopy="git add . && git commit -m 'Test PR preview' && git push origin test-preview"
/>

> Open a pull request from `test-preview` to `main` on GitHub. The workflow will run automatically after we have created a pull request. On the EAS dashboard, we can verify that the `publish_preview` job runs first and the `comment` job runs after it succeeds.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Open a pull request from `test-preview` to `main` on GitHub. The workflow runs automatically after we have created a pull request. On the EAS dashboard, we can verify that the `publish_preview` job runs first and the `comment` job runs after it succeeds.
```
